OMB No. 1513-0020
0 : = 0 k
TTB ID DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX AND TRADE BUREAU
APPLICATION FOR AND CERTIFICATION/EXEMPTION OF
1. REP. ID. NO. (lfany) CT LABELIBOTTLE APPROVAL
cat (See Instructions and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice Below)
2' PLANT REGISTRWBASIC 3. SOURCE OF PRODUCT PART I - APPLICATION
PERMIT/BREWER‘S NO. (Required) (Requ'red) 8. NAME AND ADDRESS OF APPLICANT AS SHOWN ON PLANT REGISTRY, BASIC
_ PERMIT, OR BREWER'S NOTICE. INCLUDE APPROVED DBA OR TRADENAME lF
dog El DOmQSt'C El 'mponed USED ON THE LABEL (Required)
chicken
4. SERIAL NUMBER (Required) 5. TYPE OF PRODUCT
(Required)
YEAR |:| WINE
I:I DISTILLED SPIRITS
3 3 1
|:| MALT BEVERAGES
8a. MAILING ADDRESS, IF DIFFERENT
6. BRAND NAME (Required)
dolphin mouse
7. FANCIFUL NAME (Ifany)
sloth
9. FORMULA 10. GRAPE VARIETAL(S) Wine only 14- TYPE OF APPLICATION (ChGCk applicable bOX(eS})
lion pig 3. El CERTIFICATE OF LABEL APPROVAL
b. [I CERTIFICATE OF EXEMPTION FROM LABEL APPROVAL
1 1 . WINE APPELLATION (If on label) "For sale in only" (Fill in State abbreviation)
zebra c. [I DISTINCTIVE LIQUOR BOTTLE APPROVAL. TOTAL
BOTTLE CAPACITY BEFORE CLOSURE
12. PHONE NUMBER 13. EMAIL ADDRESS (FII/m amount)
d. [I RESUBMISSION AFTER REJECTION
hippo giraffe TTB ID
15. SHOW ANY INFORMATION THAT IS BLOWN, BRANDED, OR EMBOSSED ON THE CONTAINER (e.g., net contents) ONLY IF IT DOES NOT APPEAR ON THE LABELS
AFFIXED BELOW. ALSO, SHOW TRANSLATIONS OF FOREIGN LANGUAGE TEXT APPEARING ON LABELS.
PART II - APPLICANT'S CERTIFICATION
Under the penalties of perjury, I declare: that all statements appearing on this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief;
and, that the representations on the labels attached to this form, including supplemental documents, truly and correctly represent the content of the
containers to which these labels will be applied. I also certify that l have read, understood, and complied with the conditions and instructions which are
attached to an original TTB F 5100.31, Certificate/Exemption of Label/Bottle Approval. | consent to the return of processed applications in the manner
indicated on this application and set forth in the applicable instructions.
16. DATE OF APPLICATION 17. SIGNATURE OF APPLICANT OR AUTHORIZED AGENT 18. PRINT NAME OF APPLICANT OR AUTHORIZED AGENT
bat snake
PART III - TTB CERTIFICATE
This certificate is issued subject to applicable laws, regulations, and conditions as set forth in the instructions portion of this form.
19- DATE ISSUED 20. AUTHORIZED SIGNATURE, ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX AND TRADE BUREAU
FOR TTB USE ONLY
QUALIFICATIONS
EXPIRATION DATE (If any)
AFFIX COMPLETE SET OF LABELS BELOW (See General Instructions 4 and 6)
TTB F 5100.31 (06/2016) PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE

I. PURPOSE OF THIS CERTIFICATE
This certificate authorizes you to bottle and remove the product identiﬁed on the certificate from the plant(s) identiﬁed on the certificate where it was bottled or packed, or to
remove products in containers from Customs custody. NOTE: This certiﬁcate does not constitute trademark protection.
ll. CONDITIONS OF THIS CERTIFICATE

A. This certiﬁcate does not relieve you from liability for violations of the Federal Alcohol Administration Act, the Alcoholic Beverage Labeling Act of 1988, the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986, or related regulations and rulings.

B. You must ensure that: 1) all the information on your application is true and correct and 2) any and all information (including words, text, illustrations, graphics, etc.) shown
or presented on the label(s) afﬁxed to this certiﬁcate is truthful, accurate and not misleading.

C. The Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) does not routinely review submitted labels for compliance with applicable requirements for mandatory label
information regarding type size, characters per inch or contrasting background. You must ensure that the mandatory information on the actual labels is legible and
displayed in the correct type size, number of characters per inch, and on a contrasting background in accordance with the TTB labeling regulations, 27 CFR parts 4,
5, 7, and 16, as applicable. TTB does reserve the right to review applications for compliance with these requirements and to return non-compliant applications.

III. INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING AND SUBMITTING THIS APPLICATION

NOTE: Applications may be ﬁled electronically by accessing the TTB website at https://www.ttbon|ine.gov/colasonline/.

A GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS

1. You must print or type your application and sign it in ink. Submit your application in duplicate to the ADVERTISING, LABELING AND FORMULATION DIVISION,
ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO TAX AND TRADE BUREAU, 1310 G STREET NW., BOX 12, WASHINGTON, DC 20005. (paper ﬁlers only)

2. You may use exact copies of TTB F 5100.31 in lieu of an original form. Copies do not have to include the instruction page; however, you remain subject to all the
provisions and instructions outlined on the form. We suggest that you use an original form whenever possible. See Section IV for how to obtain a supply of forms. (paper
filers only)

3. Generally, the person, firm, or corporation who will bottle or pack the product must file the application. However, for a product to be imported in containers intended for
sale at retail, the application must be filed by the importer. In the case of a product to be relabeled by a wholesaler, the application must be filed by the wholesaler.

4. You must firmly affix (with glue or tape - DO NOT STAPLE) all labels that will appear on the container. Printer‘s proofs and photocopies are acceptable. If labels are in the
form of can flats, photocopies are requested. (paper filers only)

5 . You may NOT make pen and ink changes, white out information, type over or cross out information, or paste information over labels affixed to this application. (Paper filers
only)

6. You must reduce oversized labels so that they fit in the space provided. You must indicate in Item 19 that labels have been reduced and the percentage of reduction.

B. SPECIFIC INSTRUCTIONS

ITEM 1. Include a third party representative ID Number if your application will be submitted by a third party representative, and if you consent to the disclosure of information
about the application to this representative, as well as the return of the processed application to this representative. Third party filers who do not already have a
Representative ID Number, please contact TTB to obtain one. (See section IV for contact information.)

ITEM 2. For bonded wine cellars, taxpaid wine bottling houses, and distilled spirits plants, enter the applicable registry number (BW- or TPWBH- or DSP- number). Importers
must enter the TTB basic permit number and brewers must enter the brewer’s notice number. Wholesalers applying to relabel must enter the wholesaler's basic
permit number. If you intend to bottle this product at more than one of your locations (distilled spirits and malt beverages only), show the registry number/brewer's
notice number of each location where the product will be bottled. In this instance, Item 8 should reflect your principal place of business. You may also use Item 8a
to reflect additional registry/lbrewer's notice numbers if the space provided in item 2 is insufﬁcient. In this instance, cross out the words “Mailing Address, if different."

ITEM 3. Indicate the source of the product by checking the appropriate box.

ITEM 4. You must assign a sequential serial number beginning with the last two digits of the current calendar year to each application and its duplicate, not to exceed 6
characters; e.g., 12-1, 12-2, etc.

ITEM 5. Indicate the type of product by checking the appropriate box. For Sake, check the "wine" box.

ITEM 6. A brand name is the name under which the product is sold. If the product is not sold under a brand name, enter the name of the bottler, packer, or importer, as
applicable.

ITEM 7. A fanciful name is a name that further identifies the product and is required for some specialty products. It is optional for other products.

ITEM 8. Indicate your company name and address exactly as they appear on your plant registry, basic permit, or brewer’s notice (include your approved DBA or trade name
if you use it on the label). In the case of distilled spirits and malt beverages that are bottled at more than one location indicate your principal place of business
address in this field.

ITEM 8a. You may enter a mailing address here if you receive mail at an address other than the address shown in Item 8.

ITEM 9. The term “Formula" encompasses the following pre-COLA product evaluations: domestic beverage alcohol formulas, pre-import approval letters, lab analyses, and
submissions formerly known as statements of process (SOPs). A formula is a quantitative list of ingredients and a step-by-step method of manufacture for alcohol
beverages (wine, distilled spirits, and malt beverages) requiring approval from TTB prior to production or importation as set out in Industry Circular 2007-4. TTB’s
regulatory authority for such products may also be found in 27 CFR parts 4, 5, 7, 19, 24, 25, and 26. Please visit http://www.ttb.gov/formulation/pre_cola.shtm| for
more information about when a formula is required. For any domestic or imported alcohol beverage product requiring formula approval, specify the TTB Formula

lD/TTB ID number, or TTB lab number. A copy of the approved formula or pre—import approval letter must accompany this label application. If the formula approval
was obtained electronically through Formulas Online, the system- generated TTB Formula ID number must be provided.

ITEM 10. You must list in this block each grape varietal (if any) that appears on wine labels.

ITEM 11. Fill in only if a wine appellation of origin is stated on the label.

ITEM 12. Provide the phone number of the person responsible for the application.

ITEM 13. You may provide the e-mail address of the person who should receive TTB’s response to this application. TTB will process and return all paper applications to this
e-mail address if one is provided.

ITEM 14. You must check "a" QR "."b You must also check "c" if you intend to bottle distilled spirits in a distinctive container. You must check "d" and enter the TTB ID
number as shown in the upper left hand corner of the rejected application if you are submitting an application that was previously rejected. If you check "b": 1) you
may only sell this product in the State where it is bottled AND 2) the statement "For sale in only" (using State abbreviation) must appear on each container.
We do not issue certificates of exemption for products imported in bottles or for malt beverages.

ITEM 15. The instructions for this item are on the front of the form.

ITEM 16. Enter date application is prepared or submitted.

ITEM 17. The applicant or authorized agent must sign in this block.

ITEM 18. The signer‘s name must be printed in this block.

IV. CONTACT INFORMATION

For Additional Information Contact: For A Sugply Of This Form (TTB F 5100.31) Contact:

Advertising, Labeling and Formulation Division (ALFD) The form may be ordered electronically by accessing the TTB Web site at

Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau http://www.ttb.gov/forms/ordering_forms.shtml

1310 G. Street, NW., Box 12 The form may be electronically accessed at the TTB Web site at

Washington, DC 20005 http://www.ttb.gov/forms/f510031.pdf

Phone (202) 453—2250 OR 1—866—927—2533 (Toll Free)

E-mail address: alfd@ttb.gov

TTB F 5100.31 (06-2016)

V. ALLOWABLE REVISIONS TO APPROVED LABELS

Once a label receives TTB approval, you are permitted to make certain changes to that label without submitting it to TTB. The |abe|(s) identified on and affixed to this certificate

may be revised without resubmission as follows:

NOTE: Any revision(s) you make to your approved |abe|(s) must be in compliance with the applicable regulations in 27 CFR parts 4, 5, 7, and 16, and any other applicable

provision of law or regulation, including, but not limited to, the conditions set forth in the “Comments” below.
REVISION APPLIES TO
DISTILLED MALT

YOU MAY... SP'R'TS BEVERAGE COMMENTS

1. Delete any non-mandatory label information, including text, YES YES YES If the non-mandatory information in question relates to other
illustrations, graphics, etc. information that remains on the label, it is your responsibility to ensure

hat the remaining information is not misleading after the deletion.

2. Reposition any label information, including text, illustrations, YES YES YES The repositioning must comply with any placement requirements
graphics, etc. applicable to mandatory information. For example, some types of

mandatory information must appear on the brand label or must appear
together with other label information.

3. Change the color(s) (background and text), shape and proportionate YES YES YES All mandatory information must be readily legible and appear on a

Size of labels. Change the type Size and font, and make appropriate contrasting background. If you received approval for a single label then
changes to the spelling (Including punctuation marks, changing letters you may not divide the label into multiple labels without re-approval. All
from upper 035? to lower case and woe versa, and abbreVIatIons) _0t changes must comply with applicable regulations, and changes in
words. In compliance Wlth the regulations. Change from an adhesive spelling (including punctuation marks and abbreviations) must not change the
label to one where label information is etched, painted or printed meaning of the previously approved information

directly on the container and vice versa.

4. Change the stated percentages for blends of grape varietals and YES N/A N/A When used for any of these items, the total percentages for each element
appellations 0f Ohglh for wme labels. must equal 100%. You may not change the name of the stated varietals

or appellations without submitting a new application.

5. Add, change or delete a vintage date for wine labels. YES N/A N/A If the vintage date is deleted, no reference to "Vintage” may be made
on any label or other materials (e.g., caps, capsules, oorks, etc.) affixed to
the bottle. When adding a new vintage date, you must comply with all
applicable regulations, including the requirements regarding appellations
of origin.

6. Change the optional “produced” or “made" by statements on wine YES

labels to ”blended,” “vinted,” “cellared” or ”prepared" by statements. N/A N/A

7. Add, change or delete the stated amount of acid and/or the pH level YES N/A N/A

for wine labels.

8. Change the stated amounts of sugar at harvest and/or residual YES N/A N/A See ATF Ruling 82-4 for policy regarding use of sugar content
sugar for wine labels. statements and when such statements are required.

9. Add or delete bonded winery ortaxpaid wine bottling house number YES N/A N/A If used, the number must appear in directconjunction with the bottler's

for wine labels. name and address.

10. Change the net contents statement. YES YES YES Revisions must comply with all applicable regulations governing net
content statements and standards of ﬁll. Please ensure that all
applicable type size requirements are met for each container size.

11. Change the mandatory statement of alcohol content, as long as the YES YES YES For example, you may change the alcohol content of a grape wine
change is consistent with the labeled class and type designation, and (Flavored labeled With a varietal designation from 13 percent to 15 percent
all other labeling statements. Malt alcohol by volume even though it results in a change to the product’s tax

Beverages classiﬁcation. However, if the product was designated and labeled as a
Onl ) “table wine,” an alcohol content of 15 percent alcohol by volume would
y be inconsistent with the rules for use of that designation, so this change
would not be germitted _ _
Similarly, a la el bearing a “rum" designation may not be changed to
state an alcohol content of less than 40 percent alcohol by volume. The
revised alcohol content statement must be consistent with all other
mandato or otional labelin- statements.

12. Add, delete, or change an optional statement of alcohol content for N/A N/A YES Malt beverages that contain alcohol derived from added ﬂavors or other

malt beverage labels. added nonbeverage ingredients (other than hops extract) containing
alcohol are subject to mandatory alcohol content statement
requirements.

13. Change the statement of percentage of neutral spirits and the name N/A YES N/A These changes must not result in a change to the class or type
of the commodity from which a distilled spirit is produced. designation of the distilled spirits product-

14. Change the mandatory age statement, or delete or change an MA YES N/A These changes must not result in a change to the class or type
optional age statement for distilled spirits labels. designation. See 27 CFR 5.22 and 5.40 for further information about

age statements and minimum aging requirements applicable to certain
classes and types of spirits.

15. Delete or change an optional age statement, including a barrel YES N/A YES Statements of age on wine labels must comply with 27 CFR 4.39(b).
aging statement, for wine and malt beverage labels.

16. Add, delete, or change statements or information in order to N/A N/A YES Applies only to malt beverages sold in that particular state (including the
comply with the requirements of the State in which the malt District of Columbia or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico).
beverage is to be sold.

17. Add a new Serving Facts statement or statement of average YES YES YES he statement must be in compliance with TTB Ruling 2013-2 and
analysis, add a Serving Facts statement to replace a statement of TB Ruling 2.0944; A new Sewing Facts statement '5 ‘1‘” allowable
average analysis, or change the numerical values for calories, revnsnon only If It IS In one of the formats that IS set forth In the

. . . . . examples attached to TTB Ruling 2013—2.
carbohydrates, protein, and fat contained In an eXIstIng statement.

18. Add, delete, or change stated bottling date, production date (day, YES YES YES Bottling dates added to wine labels must comply with 27 CFR 4.39(c).
month, and/or year) or freshness information including bottling,
production or expiration dates or codes.

19. Change the name ortrade name to reflect a different name already YES YES YES This means that a bonded wine cellar, taxpaid wine bottling house,
approved for use by the responsible bonded wine cellar, taxpaid distilled spirits plant, brewery or importer may revise the label to include
wine bottling house, distilledspitits plant, brewery, or importer. the use of a name or trade name that is already approved for that
Change the address where It '3 Wlthlh the same State. particular industry member. The name or trade name must appear on

the basic permit, brewer's notice, or other qualifying documents for the
company to whom the original certificate was issued. If the name or
trade name is also used as the brand name on the label, resulting in a
change of brand name, you must submit a new application. The
change in address is ONLY allowed for in-state moves or other changes
to the COLA holder’s address that have already been reﬂected on the
industry member’s basic permit, brewer‘s notice, or other qualifying

I I II ‘ I

20. Add, delete, or change the name and/or address of the foreign YES YES YES The producer, bottler, or shipper must be located in the same country
producer, bottler, or shipper. originally shown.

21- Add, delete, or change the name, address, and/or trademark of the YES YES YES
wholesaler, retailer, or persons for whom the product is imported or
bottled.

TTB F 5100.31 (06-2016)

22. Add, delete, or change bottle deposit information, or container YES YES YES

recycling information or logos.

23. Add, delete, or change UPC barcodes and/or 2D mobile YES YES YES ddition or change of UPC Code must be in compliance with Industry

barcodes, e.g., QR codes or Microsoft Tags. Circular 77-23. Any information retrieved from 2D barcodes must be in
com-Iiance with all a Iicable advertisin reulations.

24. Add, delete, or change a Web site address, phone number, fax YES YES YES

number, or zip code.

25. Add, delete, or change a lot or batch identification number or YES YES YES
other serial numbers.

26. Add, delete, or change trademark, copyright symbols (e.g., TM, ©, YES YES YES Symbols, logos and icons may not violate TTB regulations.
®), kosher symbols, company logos, and/or social media icons. ‘ dvertisements on social media sites must be in compliance with all

applicable advertising regulations.

27. Add, delete, or change optional information about awards or medals, YES YES YES
or the signature of the brewer, winemaker, or distiller of the product.

28. Add, delete, or change holiday- and/or seasonaI-themed YES YES YES Holiday/seasonaI-themed information or graphics must not conflict with
graphics, artwork and/or salutations. or qualify the mandatory information and must comply with all applicable

regulations, including the rules governing prohibited practices.

29. Delete or change promotional sponsorship-themed graphics, YES YES YES If authorization by a third party was required for use of such
logos, artwork, dates, event locations and/or other sponsorship- promotional sponsorship-themed information on a label when first
related information. (Examples: sports leagues, team approved, it is the responsibility of the industry member to have any
organizations, annual sporting events, and annual or semi—annual necessary documentation of authorization to coverthe revisions to
festivals.) Delete or change charitable endorsement information to the approved |abe|(s). The labeling statements may not create a
include information about the proceeds. misleading impression.

30. Add, delete, or change a label or sticker that provides information about YES YES YES These statements or graphics must not conﬂict with or qualify any
a rating or recognition provided by an organization (e.g., ”Recognized mandatory information and must comply with all applicable laws and
as one of the top values in vodka by X Magazine" or “Rated as the best regulations. Substantive claims about the product or its competitors
2012 wine by x Association"), as long as the rating or recognition are not covered by this exemption,
reflects simply the opinion of the organization and does not make a
specific substantive claim about the product or its competitors.

31. Delete all organic references from the label. YES YES YES If you choose to delete one organic claim on a label on which you have
received approval to make organic claims, then all organic claims,
references and certification statements must be deleted on the revised
label. The deletion of individual references or certiﬁcation statements
is not permitted without a new COLA.

32. Change an approved sulfite statement to any of these options: YES YES YES A sulfite statement is required when sulfur dioxide or a sulfiting agent is
“Contains Sulfites", “Contains (a) Sulfiting Agent(s)", “Contains [name detected at a level of 10 or more parts per million, measured as total
of speciﬁc su/fating agent]”, “Contains Naturally Occurring and Added sulfur dioxide. The statement used must accurately reflect all of the
Sulﬁtes"; or “Contains Naturally Occurring Sulﬁtes." sulfur dioxide or sulfiting agent(s) present in the alcohol beverage.

“ _ .1 . _ H . H For wine: Any other variation of the statement or removal of the

SUtPhlteS may be USGd lh “9U 0t SUtflteS- statement requires a lab analysis. For sulﬁte waivers, the proprietor
must have proof of sample analysis from a TTB—certified laboratory or
from the TTB Compliance Laboratory.

33. Add, delete, or change information about the number of bottles that YES YES YES Example: ”100 bottles produced”
were “made,” “produced," “brewed," or “distilled" in a batch;
respectively.

34. Add certain instructional statements to the |abe|(s) about how best to YES YES YES Only the following statements are approved to be added to a label:
consume or serve the product. Only the statements listed in the ”Refrigerate After Opening”
comments section may be added. ”Do Not Store In Direct Sunlight”,

”Best If Frozen For_ to_ Hours”,

”Shake Well”,

”Pour Over Ice”,

”Best When Chilled”,

”Best Sen/ed Chilled”,

”Serve Chilled”,

”Serve at Room Temperature”
If you have questions about what is mandatory information and what is non-mandatory information, please consult the applicable regulations in 27 CFR
parts 4, 5, 7 and 16, or contact TTB. See Section IV for how to contact TTB.
PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT NOTICE
This request is in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. We collect this information to verify your compliance with the
Federal laws and regulations we administer for the labeling of alcohol beverages. The information is mandated by statute (27 U.S.C. 205)
and is used to obtain a benefit.
We estimate 31 minutes as the average burden for you to complete this form depending on your individual circumstances. You may comment to
us about the accuracy of this burden estimate and suggest ways for us to reduce the burden. Address your comments or suggestions to:
Reports Management Officer, Regulations and Rulings Division, Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, 1310 G Street, NW., Box12,
Washington, DC 20005.
We may not conduct this collection of information, and you are not required to respond to this request, unless it displays a valid, current OMB
control number.
DISCLOSURE STATEMENT
We require this information under the authority of 27 U.S.C. 205(e). You must disclose this information so we may verify your compliance with the
Federal laws and regulations we administer forthe labeling ofalcohol beverages.
We use this information for the purposes described in the preceding paragraph. In addition, the information may be disclosed to other Federal, State,
and local law enforcement and regulatory agency personnel to verify information on the application and to aid in the performance of their duties. The
information may further be disclosed to the Justice Department if it appears that the furnishing of false information may contribute to a violation of
Federal law. If you fail to supply complete information, then there will be a delay in the processing of your application.
After TTB issues a certificate of label approval, a certiﬁcate of exemption from label approval, or a distinctive liquor bottle approval, copies of the
approved applications are made available for public inspection.

TTB F 5100.31 (06-2016)

